## Results

### Generative Model Using Randomly Sampled Label Functions
![
Grid of Area Under the Receiver Operating Curve (AUROC) scores for each generative model trained on randomly sampled label functions.
The rows depict the relationship each model is trying to predict and the columns are the relationship specific sources each label function is sampled from.
For example, the top-left most square depicts the generative model predicting Disease associates Gene (DaG) sentences, while randomly sampling label functions designed to predict the DaG relationship. 
The square towards the right depicts the generative model predicting DaG sentences, while randomly sampling label functions designed to predict the Compound treats Disease (CtD) relationship.
This pattern continues filling out the rest of the grid.
The last most column consists of pooling every relationship specific label function and proceeding as above.
](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/greenelab/snorkeling/master/figures/label_sampling_experiment/transfer_test_set_auroc.png){#fig:gen_model_auroc}

We added randomly sampled label functions to a baseline for each edge type to evaluate the feasibility of label function re-use.
Our baseline model consisted of a generative model trained with only the edge type's distant supervision label functions.
We report the results in the form of area under the precision recall curve (AUPR) (Figure {@fig:gen_model_auprc}) and area under the receiver operating curve (AUROC) (Figure {@fig:gen_model_auroc}).  
The on-diagonal plots of figure {@fig:gen_model_auprc}) and figure {@fig:gen_model_auprc} show performance when edge-specific label functions are added on top of edge-specific baselines.
The general trend is performance increases in this setting.
The Compound-treats-Disease (CtD) edge type is a quintessential example of this trend.
The baseline model starts off with an AUROC score of 52% and an AUPRC of 28%, which increase to 76% and 49% respectively as more CtD label functions are included. 
Disease-associates-Gene (DaG) edges have a similar trend: performance starting off with a AUROC of 56% and AUPRC of 41%, which increase to 62% and 45% respectively.
Both the Compound-binds-Gene (CbG) and Gene-interacts-Gene (GiG) edges have an increasing trend but plateau after a few label functions are added.  

The off-diagonals in figure {@fig:gen_model_auprc}) and figure {@fig:gen_model_auprc} show how performance varies when label functions from one edge type are added to a different edge type's baseline.
In certain cases (apparent for DaG), performance increases regardless of the edge type used for label functions.
In other cases (apparent with CtD), one label function appears to improve performance; however, adding more label functions does not improve performance (AUROC) or decreases it (AUPRC).
In certain cases, the source of the label functions appear to be important: for CbG edges performance decreases when using label functions from the DaG and CtD categories.

Our initial hypothesis was based on the idea that certain edge types capture similar physical relationships and that these cases would be particularly amenable for label function transfer.
For example, Compound-binds-Gene (CbG) and Gene-interacts-Gene (GiG) both describe physical interactions.
We observed that performance increased as assessed by both AUPRC and AUPRC when using label functions from the GiG edge type to predict CbG edges.
A similar trend was observed when predicting the GiG edge; however, the performance differences were small for this edge type making the importance difficult to assess.  
The last column shows performance when sampling from all label functions.
Performance increased (AUROC and AUPRC) for both DaG and CtD, when sampling from the full pool of label functions.
CbG and GiG also had increased performance when one random label function was sampled, but performance decreased drastically as more label functions were added.
It is possible that a small number of irrelevant label functions are able to overwhelm the distant supervision label functions in these cases.

![
Grid of Area Under the Precision Recall Curve (AUPRC) scores for each generative model trained on randomly sampled label functions.
The rows depict the relationship each model is trying to predict and the columns are the relationship specific sources each label function is sampled from.
For example, the top-left most square depicts the generative model predicting Disease associates Gene (DaG) sentences, while randomly sampling label functions designed to predict the DaG relationship. 
The square towards the right depicts the generative model predicting DaG sentences, while randomly sampling label functions designed to predict the Compound treats Disease (CtD) relationship.
This pattern continues filling out the rest of the grid.
The last most column consists of pooling every relationship specific label function and proceeding as above.
](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/greenelab/snorkeling/master/figures/label_sampling_experiment/transfer_test_set_auprc.png){#fig:gen_model_auprc}

### Random Label Function Gen Model Analysis
![
A grid of area under the receiver operating curve (AUROC) for each edge type.
Each plot consists of adding a single label function on top of the baseline model.
This label function emits a positive (top row) or negative (bottom row) label at specified frequencies, and performance at zero is equivalent to not having a randomly emitting label function.
The error bars represent 95% confidence intervals for AUROC (y-axis) at each emission frequency.
](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/danich1/snorkeling/f8962788e462b783be05a6dec5eec7fe0f0259e7/figures/gen_model_error_analysis/transfer_test_set_auroc.png){#fig:random_label_function_auroc}

We observed that including one label function of a mismatched type to distant supervision often improved performance, so we evaluated the effects of adding a random label function in the same setting.
We found that adding random noise did not usually improve performance (Figures {@fig:random_label_function_auprc} and {@fig:random_label_function_auprc}).
For the CbG edge type we did observe slightly increased performance via AUPR (Figure {@fig:random_label_function_auprc}).
However, in general the performance changes were smaller than those observed with mismatched label types.

![
A grid of area under the precision recall curve (AUPR) for each edge type.
Each plot consists of adding a single label function on top of the baseline model.
This label function emits a positive (top row) or negative (bottom row) label at specified frequencies.
The error bars represent 95% confidence intervals for AUPR (y-axis) at emission frequency.
](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/danich1/snorkeling/f8962788e462b783be05a6dec5eec7fe0f0259e7/figures/gen_model_error_analysis/transfer_test_set_auprc.png){#fig:random_label_function_auprc}


### Discriminative Model Performance

In this framework we used a generative model trained over label functions to produce probabilistic training labels for each sentence.
Then we train a discriminative model, which has full access to a representation of the text of the sentence, to predict the generated labels.
The discriminative model is a convolutional neural network trained over word embeddings.
We report the results of the discriminative model using AUPR (Figure {@fig:discriminative_model_auprc}) and AUROC (Figure {@fig:discriminative_model_auroc}).    
We found that the discriminative model under-performed the generative model in most cases.
Only for the CtD edge does the discriminative model appear to provide performance above the generative model and that increased performance is only with modest numbers of label functions.
With the full set of label functions, the performance of both remains similar.
The trend observed in the generative model that one or a few mismatched label functions (off-diagonal) improves performance is retained despite the limited performance of the discriminative model.
 

![
Grid of Area Under the Receiver Operating Curve (AUROC) scores for each discriminative model trained using generated labels from the generative models.
The rows depict the relationship each model is trying to predict and the columns are the relationship specific sources each label function was sampled from. 
For example, the top-left most square depicts the discriminator model predicting Disease associates Gene (DaG) sentences, while randomly sampling label functions designed to predict the DaG relationship.
The error bars over the points represents the standard deviation between sampled runs.
The square towards the right depicts the discriminative model predicting DaG sentences, while randomly sampling label functions designed to predict the Compound treats Disease (CtD) relationship.
This pattern continues filling out the rest of the grid.
The last most column consists of pooling every relationship specific label function and proceeding as above.
](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/greenelab/snorkeling/master/figures/label_sampling_experiment/disc_performance_test_set_auroc.png){#fig:discriminative_model_auroc}

![
Grid of Area Under the Receiver Operating Curve (AUROC) scores for each discriminative model trained using generated labels from the generative models.
The rows depict the relationship each model is trying to predict and the columns are the relationship specific sources each label function was sampled from. 
For example, the top-left most square depicts the discriminator model predicting Disease associates Gene (DaG) sentences, while randomly sampling label functions designed to predict the DaG relationship.
The error bars over the points represents the standard deviation between sampled runs.
The square towards the right depicts the discriminative model predicting DaG sentences, while randomly sampling label functions designed to predict the Compound treats Disease (CtD) relationship.
This pattern continues filling out the rest of the grid.
The last most column consists of pooling every relationship specific label function and proceeding as above.
](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/greenelab/snorkeling/master/figures/label_sampling_experiment/disc_performance_test_set_auprc.png){#fig:discriminative_model_auprc}

### Discriminative Model Calibration

Even deep learning models with high precision and recall can be poorly calibrated, and the overconfidence of these models has been noted [@arxiv:1706.04599; @arxiv:1807.00263].
We attempted to calibrate the best performing discriminative model so that we could directly use the emitted probabilities.
We examined the calibration of our existing model (Figure {@fig:discriminative_model_calibration}, blue line).
We found that the DaG and CtG edge types were, though not perfectly calibrated, were somewhat aligned with the ideal calibration lines.
The CbG and GiG edges were poorly calibrated and increasing model certainty did not always lead to an increase in precision.
Applying the calibration algorithm (orange line) did not appear to bring predictions in line with the ideal calibration line, but did capture some of the uncertainty in the GiG edge type.
For this reason we use the measured precision instead of the predicted probabilities when determining how many edges could be added to existing knowledge bases with specified levels of confidence.

![
Calibration plots for the discriminative model.
A perfectly calibrated model would follow the dashed diagonal line.
The blue line represents the predictions before calibration and the orange line shows predictions after calibration. 
](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/greenelab/snorkeling/master/figures/model_calibration_experiment/model_calibration.png){#fig:discriminative_model_calibration}

## Reconstructing Hetionet
![
This figure is about reconstructing hetionet.
](images/figures/hetionet_reconstruction/edges_added.png){#fig:hetionet_reconstruction}
