## Conclusion and Future Direction

Filling out knowledge bases via manual curation can be an arduous and erroneous task [@doi:10.1093/bioinformatics/btm229].
As the rate of publications increases manual curation alone becomes an impractical approach.
Data programming, a paradigm that uses label functions as a means to speed up the annotation process, can be used as a solution for this problem.
An obstabcle this paradigm faces is that creating a useful label function takes a significant amount of time. 
We tested the feasibility of reusing label functions as a way to speed up the  label function creation process.
We conclude that label function can be re-used with closely related edge types (Compound binds Gene and Gene interacts Gene), but is practically futile for distantly related ones (Compound treats Disease and Disease associates Gene).
More sophisticated methods may be able to connect distantly related edge types and avoid many of the drawbacks we encountered in this work.
The discriminative model's performance improves as more edge-specific label functions are incorporated into the generative model; however, we did notice that performance greatly depends on the generativce model.
We recommend that future endeavors focus on efficiently tuning the generative model to ensure proper discriminative model training.

This work sets up the foundation for creating a common framework that mines text to create edges.
Within this framework we would continuously ingest new knowledge as novel findings are published, while providing a single confidence score for an edge via sentence score consolidation.
Different from existing hetnets like Hetionet where text-derived edges generally cannot be exactly attributed to excerpts from literature [@doi:10.7554/eLife.26726; @doi:10.15363/thinklab.d67], our approach would annotate each edge based on its source sentences.
In addition, edges generated with this approach would be unencumbered from upstream licensing or copyright restrictions, enabling openly licensed hetnets at a scale not previously possible [@doi:10.15363/thinklab.d107; @doi:10.1038/536016a; @doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0213090].
Accordingly, we plan to use this framework to create a robust multi-edge extractor via multitask learning [@doi:10.1145/3209889.3209898] to construct continuously updating literature-derived hetnets.
