## References {.page_break_before}

<!-- Explicitly insert bibliography here -->
<div id="refs"></div>

## Supplemental Methods {.page_break_before}

### Label Function Categories

We provide examples of label function categories below. Each example regards the following candidate sentence: “[PTK6]{.gene_color} may be a novel therapeutic target for [pancreatic cancer]{.disease_color}.”

**Databases**: These label functions incorporate existing databases to generate a signal, as seen in distant supervision [@doi:10.3115/1690219.1690287].
These functions detect if a candidate sentence's co-mention pair is present in a given database.
If the candidate pair is present, our label function emitted a positive label and abstained otherwise.
If the candidate pair wasn't present in any existing database, a separate label function emitted a negative label.
We used a separate label function to prevent a label imbalance problem that we encountered during development: emitting positive and negatives from the same label functions appeared to result in classifiers that predict almost exclusively negative predictions.

$$ \Lambda_{DB}(\color{#875442}{D}, \color{#02b3e4}{G}) = 
\begin{cases}
 1 & (\color{#875442}{D}, \color{#02b3e4}{G}) \in DB \\
0 & otherwise \\
\end{cases} $$

$$ \Lambda_{\neg DB}(\color{#875442}{D}, \color{#02b3e4}{G}) = 
\begin{cases}
 -1 & (\color{#875442}{D}, \color{#02b3e4}{G}) \notin DB \\
0 & otherwise \\
\end{cases} $$

**Text Patterns**: These label functions are designed to use keywords and sentence context to generate a signal. 
For example, a label function could focus on the number of words between two mentions or focus on the grammatical structure of a sentence.
These functions emit a positive or negative label depending on the situation.

$$ \Lambda_{TP}(\color{#875442}{D}, \color{#02b3e4}{G}) = 
\begin{cases}
 1 & "target" \> \in Candidate \> Sentence \\
 0 & otherwise \\
\end{cases} $$

$$ \Lambda_{TP}(\color{#875442}{D}, \color{#02b3e4}{G}) = 
\begin{cases}
 -1 & 	"VB" \> \notin pos\_tags(Candidate \> Sentence) \\
 0 & otherwise \\
\end{cases} $$


**Domain Heuristics**: These label functions use the other experiment results to generate a signal. 
For this category, we used dependency path cluster themes generated by Percha et al. [@tag:global_network].
If a candidate sentence's dependency path belongs to a previously generated cluster, then the label function will emit a positive label and abstain otherwise.

$$
\Lambda_{DH}(\color{#875442}{D}, \color{#02b3e4}{G}) = \begin{cases}
    1 & Candidate \> Sentence \in Cluster \> Theme\\
    0 & otherwise \\
    \end{cases}
$$

Roughly half of our label functions are based on text patterns, while the others are distributed across the databases and domain heuristics (Table {@tbl:label-functions}).

| Relationship | Databases (DB) | Text Patterns (TP) | Domain Heuristics (DH) |
| --- | :---: | :---: | :---: |
| DaG | 7 | 20 | 10 | 
| CtD | 3 | 15 | 7 |
| CbG | 9 | 13 | 7 | 
| GiG | 9 | 20 | 8 | 

Table: The distribution of each label function per relationship. {#tbl:label-functions} 

### Adding Random Noise to Generative Model

We discovered in the course of this work that adding a single label function from a mismatched type would often improve the performance of the generative model (see Results).
We designed an experiment to test whether adding a noisy label function also increased performance.
This label function emitted a positive or negative label at varying frequencies, which were evenly spaced from zero to one.
Zero was the same as distant supervision and one meant that all sentences were randomly labeled.
We trained the generative model with these label functions added and reported results in terms of AUROC and AUPR.

### Discriminative Model

The discriminative model is a neural network, which we train to predict labels from the generative model.
The expectation is that the discriminative model can learn more complete features of the text than the label functions used in the generative model.
We used a convolutional neural network with multiple filters as our discriminative model.
This network uses multiple filters with fixed widths of 300 dimensions and a fixed height of 7 (Figure {@fig:convolutional_network}), because this height provided the best performance in terms of relationship classification [@arxiv:1510.03820].
We trained this model for 20 epochs using the adam optimizer [@arxiv:1412.6980] with pytorch's default parameter settings and a learning rate of 0.001.
We added a L2 penalty on the network weights to prevent overfitting.
Lastly, we added a dropout layer (p=0.25) between the fully connected layer and the softmax layer.

![
The architecture of the discriminative model was a convolutional neural network.
We performed a convolution step using multiple filters. 
The filters generated a feature map that was sent into a maximum pooling layer that was designed to extract the largest feature in each map.
The extracted features were concatenated into a singular vector that was passed into a fully connected network. 
The fully connected network had 300 neurons for the first layer, 100 neurons for the second layer and 50 neurons for the last layer. 
The last step from the fully connected network was to generate predictions using a softmax layer.
](images/figures/convolutional_neural_network/convolutional_neural_nework.png){#fig:convolutional_network}

#### Word Embeddings

Word embeddings are representations that map individual words to real valued vectors of user-specified dimensions.
These embeddings have been shown to capture the semantic and syntactic information between words [@arxiv:1310.4546].
We trained Facebook's fastText [@arxiv:1607.04606] using all candidate sentences for each individual relationship pair to generate word embeddings.
fastText uses a skipgram model [@arxiv:1301.3781] that aims to predict the surrounding context for a candidate word and pairs the model with a novel scoring function that treats each word as a bag of character n-grams.
We trained this model for 20 epochs using a window size of 2 and generated 300-dimensional word embeddings.
We use the optimized word embeddings to train a discriminative model. 

#### Calibration of the Discriminative Model

Often many tasks require a machine learning model to output reliable probability predictions. 
A model is well calibrated if the probabilities emitted from the model match the observed probabilities: a well-calibrated model that assigns a class label with 80% probability should have that class appear 80% of the time.
Deep neural network models can often be poorly calibrated [@arxiv:1706.04599; @arxiv:1807.00263].
These models are usually over-confident in their predictions.
As a result, we calibrated our convolutional neural network using temperature scaling. 
Temperature scaling uses a parameter T to scale each value of the logit vector (z) before being passed into the softmax (SM) function.

$$\sigma_{SM}(\frac{z_{i}}{T}) = \frac{\exp(\frac{z_{i}}{T})}{\sum_{i}\exp(\frac{z_{i}}{T})}$$

We found the optimal T by minimizing the negative log likelihood (NLL) of a held out validation set.
The benefit of using this method is that the model becomes more reliable and the accuracy of the model doesn't change [@arxiv:1706.04599].

## Supplemental Tables and Figures

### Generative Model Using Randomly Sampled Label Functions

![
Plot of AUROC scores for each generative model trained on randomly sampled label functions.
The headers depict the relationship each model is trying to predict and the colored points represent the edge type specific sources from which each label function is sampled.
The 0th point represents our baseline model which uses distant supervision (only database label functions).
](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/danich1/snorkeling/1b198264ea16fbd7ced7646907d955dd095bfc7e/figures/label_sampling_experiment/transfer_dev_set_auroc.png){#fig:auroc_gen_model_tune_set}

![
Plot of AUPR scores for each generative model trained on randomly sampled label functions.
The headers depict the relationship each model is trying to predict and the colored points represent the edge type specific sources from which each label function is sampled.
The 0th point represents our baseline model which uses distant supervision (only database label functions).
](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/danich1/snorkeling/1b198264ea16fbd7ced7646907d955dd095bfc7e/figures/label_sampling_experiment/transfer_dev_set_aupr.png){#fig:aupr_gen_model_tune_set}

![
Plot of AUROC scores for each generative model trained on randomly sampled label functions from all edge types.
The headers depict the relationship each model is trying to predict and the colored points represent the edge type specific sources from which each label function is sampled.
The 0th point represents our baseline model which only uses distant supervision label functions.
The x-axis is relative to the all label function source samples.
](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/danich1/snorkeling/f16f37ade89ea82fbc3d2d6f9610c188952172b5/figures/label_sampling_experiment/all_lf_dev_set_auroc.png){#fig:auroc_grabbag_gen_model_tune_set}

![
Plot of AUPR scores for each generative model trained on randomly sampled label functions from all edge types.
The headers depict the relationship each model is trying to predict and the colored points represent the edge type specific sources from which each label function is sampled.
The 0th point represents our baseline model which only uses distant supervision label functions.
The x-axis is relative to the all label function source samples.
](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/danich1/snorkeling/f16f37ade89ea82fbc3d2d6f9610c188952172b5/figures/label_sampling_experiment/all_lf_dev_set_aupr.png){#fig:aupr_grabbag_gen_model_tune_set}

### Discriminative Model Performance

![
Grid of AUROC scores for each discriminative model trained using generated labels from the generative models.
The rows depict the edge type each model is trying to predict and the columns are the edge type specific sources from which each label function was sampled. 
For example, the top-left most square depicts the discriminator model predicting DaG sentences, while randomly sampling label functions designed to predict the DaG relationship.
The error bars over the points represents the standard deviation between sampled runs.
The square towards the right depicts the discriminative model predicting DaG sentences, while randomly sampling label functions designed to predict the CtD relationship.
This pattern continues filling out the rest of the grid.
The right most column consists of pooling every relationship specific label function and proceeding as above.
](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/danich1/snorkeling/ee638b4e45717a86f54a2744a813baaa90bc6b84/figures/label_sampling_experiment/disc_performance_test_set_auroc.png){#fig:auroc_discriminative_model_performance}

In this framework we used a generative model trained over label functions to produce probabilistic training labels for each sentence.
Then we trained a discriminative model, which has full access to a representation of the text of the sentence, to predict the generated labels.
The discriminative model is a convolutional neural network trained over word embeddings (See Methods).
We report the results of the discriminative model using AUROC and AUPR (Figures {@fig:auroc_discriminative_model_performance} and {@fig:aupr_discriminative_model_performance}).  
  
We found that the discriminative model under-performed the generative model in most cases.
Only for the CtD edge does the discriminative model appear to provide performance above the generative model and that increased performance is only with a modest number of label functions.
With the full set of label functions, performance of both models remain similar.
The one or a few mismatched label functions (off-diagonal) improving generative model performance trend is retained despite the limited performance of the discriminative model.

![
Grid of AUPR scores for each discriminative model trained using generated labels from the generative models.
The rows depict the edge type each model is trying to predict and the columns are the edge type specific sources from which each label function was sampled. 
For example, the top-left most square depicts the discriminator model predicting DaG sentences, while randomly sampling label functions designed to predict the DaG relationship.
The error bars over the points represents the standard deviation between sampled runs.
The square towards the right depicts the discriminative model predicting DaG sentences, while randomly sampling label functions designed to predict the CtD relationship.
This pattern continues filling out the rest of the grid.
The right most column consists of pooling every relationship specific label function and proceeding as above.
](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/danich1/snorkeling/ee638b4e45717a86f54a2744a813baaa90bc6b84/figures/label_sampling_experiment/disc_performance_test_set_auprc.png){#fig:aupr_discriminative_model_performance}

### Discriminative Model Calibration

![
Calibration plots for the discriminative model.
A perfectly calibrated model would follow the dashed diagonal line.
The blue line represents the predictions before calibration and the orange line shows predictions after calibration. 
](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/greenelab/snorkeling/master/figures/model_calibration_experiment/model_calibration.png){#fig:discriminative_model_calibration}

Even deep learning models with high precision and recall can be poorly calibrated, and the overconfidence of these models has been noted [@arxiv:1706.04599; @arxiv:1807.00263].
We attempted to calibrate the best performing discriminative model so that we could directly use the emitted probabilities.
We examined the calibration of our existing model (Supplemental Figure {@fig:discriminative_model_calibration}, blue line).
We found that the DaG and CtG edge types were, though not perfectly calibrated, were somewhat aligned with the ideal calibration lines.
The CbG and GiG edges were poorly calibrated and increasing model certainty did not always lead to an increase in precision.
Applying the calibration algorithm (orange line) did not appear to bring predictions in line with the ideal calibration line, but did capture some of the uncertainty in the GiG edge type.
For this reason we use the measured precision instead of the predicted probabilities when determining how many edges could be added to existing knowledge bases with specified levels of confidence.

#### Model Calibration Tables

| Disease Name  | Gene Symbol | Text  | Before Calibration | After Calibraiton | 
|-------------------|-------------|--------------------------------------------------------|---------------|---------------| 
| adrenal gland cancer         | TP53        | the mechanisms of adrenal tumorigenesis remain poorly established ; the r337h germline mutation in the [p53]{.gene_color} gene has previously been associated with [acts]{.disease_color} in brazilian children .                                                                                                                                  | 1.0                | 0.882             | 
| breast cancer                | ERBB2       | in [breast cancer]{.disease_color} , overexpression of [her2]{.gene_color} is associated with an aggressive tumor phenotype and poor prognosis .                                                                                                                                                                                                   | 1.0                | 0.845             | 
| lung cancer                  | TP53        | however , both adenine ( a ) and guanine ( g ) mutations are found in the [p53]{.gene_color} gene in cr exposure-related [lung cancer]{.disease_color} .                                                                                                                                                                                           | 1.0                | 0.83              | 
| malignant glioma             | BAX         | these data suggest that the combination of tra-8 treatment with specific overexpression of [bax]{.gene_color} using advegfbax may be an effective approach for the treatment of human [malignant gliomas]{.disease_color} .                                                                                                                        | 0.999              | 0.827             | 
| polycystic ovary syndrome    | SERPINE1    | 4 g allele in [pai-1]{.gene_color} gene was more frequent in [pcos]{.disease_color} and the 4g/4 g genotype was associated with increased pai-1 levels .                                                                                                                                                                                           | 0.999              | 0.814             | 
| systemic lupus erythematosus | PRL         | results : [sle]{.disease_color} patients showed a significantly higher serum level of [prl]{.gene_color} than healthy subjects , which was especially obvious in the active stage of the disease ( p = 0.000 .                                                                                                                                     | 0.999              | 0.813             | 
| hematologic cancer           | TNF         | the mean [tnf-alpha]{.gene_color} plasma concentration in the patients with [cll]{.disease_color} was significantly higher than in the healthy control population ( 16.4 versus 8.7 pg/ml ; p < .0001 ) .                                                                                                                                          | 0.999              | 0.81              | 
| lung cancer                  | MUC16       | the mean concentration of [ca 125]{.gene_color} was higher in patients with [lung cancer]{.disease_color} ( 37 + / - 81 u/ml ) than in those with nonmalignant disease ( 4.2 + / - 5.7 u/ml ) ( p less than 0.01 ) .                                                                                                                               | 0.999              | 0.806             | 
| prostate cancer              | AR          | the [androgen receptor]{.gene_color} was expressed in all primary and metastatic [prostate cancer]{.disease_color} tissues and no mutations were identified .                                                                                                                                                                                      | 0.999              | 0.801             | 
| breast cancer                | ERBB2       | the results of multiple linear regression analysis , with her2 as the dependent variable , showed that family history of [breast cancer]{.disease_color} was significantly associated with elevated [her2]{.gene_color} levels in the tumors ( p = 0.0038 ) , after controlling for the effects of age , tumor estrogen receptor , and dna index . | 0.999              | 0.8               |  
Table: Contains the top ten Disease-associates-Gene confidence scores before and after model calbration. Disease mentions are highlighted in [brown]{.disease_color} and Gene mentions are highlighted in [blue]{.gene_color}. {#tbl:dg_top_ten_table}

| Disease Name       | Gene Symbol | Text  | Before Calibration | After Calibraiton | 
|----------------|-------------|----------------------------------------------------------|---------------|---------------|  
| breast cancer      | NAT2        | [ the relationship between passive smoking , [breast cancer]{.disease_color} risk and [n-acetyltransferase 2]{.gene_color} ( nat2 ) ] .                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 | 0.012              | 0.287             | 
| schizophrenia      | EP300       | ventricle size and [p300]{.gene_color} in [schizophrenia]{.disease_color} .                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             | 0.012              | 0.286             | 
| hematologic cancer | CD33        | in the 2 ( nd ) study of [cd33]{.gene_color} + [sr-aml]{.disease_color} 2 doses of go ( 4.5 - 9 mg/m ( 2 ) ) were administered > = 60d post reduced intensity conditioning ( ric ) allosct ( 8 wks apart ) .                                                                                                                                                            | 0.01               | 0.281             | 
| Crohn's disease    | PTPN2       | in this sample , we were able to confirm an association between [cd]{.disease_color} and [ptpn2]{.gene_color} ( genotypic p = 0.019 and allelic p = 0.011 ) , and phenotypic analysis showed an association of this snp with late age at first diagnosis , inflammatory and penetrating cd behaviour , requirement of bowel resection and being a smoker at diagnosis . | 0.008              | 0.268             | 
| breast cancer      | ERBB2       | [ long-term efficacy and safety of adjuvant trastuzumab for [her2-positive]{.gene_color} early [breast cancer ]]{.disease_color} .                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      | 0.007              | 0.262             | 
| hematologic cancer | CD40LG      | we examined the direct effect of lenalidomide on [cll-cell proliferation]{.disease_color} induced by [cd154-expressing]{.gene_color} accessory cells in media containing interleukin-4 and -10 .                                                                                                                                                                        | 0.006              | 0.259             | 
| hematologic cancer | MLANA       | methods : the sln sections ( n = 214 ) were assessed by qrt assay for 4 established messenger rna biomarkers : [mart-1]{.gene_color} , mage-a3 , [galnac-t]{.disease_color} , and pax3 .                                                                                                                                                                                | 0.005              | 0.252             | 
| breast cancer      | ERBB2       | the keywords erbb2 or her2 or erbb-2 or [her-2]{.gene_color} and [breast cancer]{.disease_color} and ( country ) were used to search pubmed , international and local conference abstracts and local-language journals from the year 2000 onwards .                                                                                                                     | 0.003              | 0.225             | 
| hepatitis B        | PKD2        | conversely , a significant enhancement of activation was observed for afb1 in cases of mild cah and especially for [trp-p-2]{.gene_color} in [hepatitis b]{.disease_color} virus carriers , irrespective of their histologic diagnosis .                                                                                                                                | 0.002              | 0.217             | 
| hematologic cancer | C7          | serum antibody responses to four haemophilus influenzae type b capsular polysaccharide-protein conjugate vaccines ( prp-d , hboc , [c7p]{.gene_color} , and [prp-t )]{.disease_color} were studied and compared in 175 infants , 85 adults and 140 2-year-old children .                                                                                                | 0.002              | 0.208             | 
Table: Contains the bottom ten Disease-associates-Gene confidence scores before and after model calbration. Disease mentions are highlighted in [brown]{.disease_color} and Gene mentions are highlighted in [blue]{.gene_color}. {#tbl:dg_bottom_ten_table}

| Compound Name      | Disease Name  | Text  | Before Calibration | After Calibration | 
|----------------|----------------|--------------------------------------------------------|---------------|---------------|  
| Methylprednisolone | asthma                         | use of tao without [methylprednisolone]{.compound_color} in the treatment of severe [asthma]{.disease_color} .                                                                          | 1.0                | 0.895             | 
| Methyldopa         | hypertension                   | atenolol and [methyldopa]{.compound_color} in the treatment of [hypertension]{.disease_color} .                                                                                         | 1.0                | 0.888             | 
| Prednisone         | asthma                         | [prednisone]{.compound_color} and beclomethasone for treatment of [asthma]{.disease_color} .                                                                                            | 1.0                | 0.885             | 
| Prazosin           | hypertension                   | experience with [prazosin]{.compound_color} in the treatment of [hypertension]{.disease_color} .                                                                                        | 1.0                | 0.883             | 
| Prazosin           | hypertension                   | [prazosin]{.compound_color} in the treatment of [hypertension]{.disease_color} .                                                                                                        | 1.0                | 0.878             | 
| Prazosin           | hypertension                   | [ [prazosin]{.compound_color} in the treatment of [hypertension ]]{.disease_color} .                                                                                                    | 1.0                | 0.878             | 
| Methyldopa         | hypertension                   | oxprenolol plus cyclopenthiazide-kcl versus [methyldopa]{.compound_color} in the treatment of [hypertension]{.disease_color} .                                                          | 1.0                | 0.877             | 
| Prednisolone       | lymphatic system cancer        | peptichemio : a new oncolytic drug in combination with vincristine and [prednisolone]{.compound_color} in the treatment of [non-hodgkin lymphomas]{.disease_color} .                    | 1.0                | 0.871             | 
| Methyldopa         | hypertension                   | methyldopate , the ethyl ester hydrochloride salt of [alpha-methyldopa]{.compound_color} ( alpha-md ) , is used extensively in the treatment of severe [hypertension]{.disease_color} . | 1.0                | 0.851             | 
| Haloperidol        | Gilles de la Tourette syndrome | a comparison of pimozide and [haloperidol]{.compound_color} in the treatment of gilles de la [tourette 's syndrome]{.disease_color} .                                                   | 1.0                | 0.839             | 
Table: Contains the top ten Compound-treats-Disease confidence scores after model calbration. Disease mentions are highlighted in [brown]{.disease_color} and Compound mentions are highlighted in [red]{.compound_color}. {#tbl:cd_top_ten_table}

| Compound Name  | Disease Name | Text   | Before Calibration | After Calibration | 
|----------------|----------------|--------------------------------------------------------|---------------|---------------| 
| Dexamethasone                  | hypertension            | [dexamethasone]{.compound_color} and [hypertension]{.disease_color} in preterm infants .                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              | 0.011              | 0.34              | 
| Reserpine                      | hypertension            | [reserpine]{.compound_color} in [hypertension]{.disease_color} : present status .                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     | 0.01               | 0.336             | 
| Creatine                       | coronary artery disease | scintiphotographic findings were compared with the size of [myocardial infarcts]{.disease_color} calculated from measurements of the activity of mb isoenzymes of [creatine]{.compound_color} kinase ( ck-mb ) in serum and in the myocardium at autopsy , as described by sobel 's method .                                                                                                                                                                                                          | 0.009              | 0.334             | 
| Hydrocortisone                 | brain cancer            | to explore the effects of repeated episodes of hypercortisolemia on [hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis]{.disease_color} regulation , we studied plasma acth and [cortisol]{.compound_color} ( cort ) responses to 100 micrograms human crh ( hcrh ) in 10 dexamethasone ( 1.5 mg ) - pretreated elderly endurance athletes who had abstained from physical activity for at least 48 h before testing and 13 sedentary age-matched controls .                                                        | 0.009              | 0.333             | 
| Hydrocortisone                 | brain cancer            | basal activity of the [hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis]{.disease_color} was estimated by determinations of 24-h urinary free cortisol-excretion , evening basal plasma total and free [cortisol]{.compound_color} concentrations , and the cortisol binding globulin-binding capacity .                                                                                                                                                                                                           | 0.008              | 0.328             | 
| Creatine                       | coronary artery disease | during successful and uncomplicated angioplasty ( ptca ) , we studied the effect of a short lasting [myocardial ischemia]{.disease_color} on plasma creatine kinase , creatine kinase mb-activity , and [creatine]{.compound_color} kinase mm-isoforms ( mm1 , mm2 , mm3 ) in 23 patients .                                                                                                                                                                                                           | 0.006              | 0.318             | 
| Benzylpenicillin               | epilepsy syndrome       | it was shown in experiments on cats under nembutal anesthesia that a lesion of the medial forebrain bundle ( mfb ) and partly of the preoptic region at the side of local penicillin application on the cerebral cortex ( g. suprasylvius medius ) results in depression of the [epileptiform activity]{.disease_color} in the [penicillin-induced]{.compound_color} focus , as well as in the secondary `` mirror '' focus , which appeared in the symmetrical cortex area of the other hemisphere . | 0.005              | 0.315             | 
| Indomethacin                   | hypertension            | effects of [indomethacin]{.compound_color} in rabbit [renovascular hypertension]{.disease_color} .                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    | 0.004              | 0.308             | 
| Cyclic Adenosine Monophosphate | ovarian cancer          | the hormonal regulation of steroidogenesis and [adenosine 3 ' :5 ' - cyclic monophosphate]{.compound_color} in [embryonic-chick ovary]{.disease_color} .                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              | 0.002              | 0.292             | 
| Dobutamine                     | coronary artery disease | two-dimensional echocardiography can detect regional wall motion abnormalities resulting from [myocardial ischemia]{.disease_color} produced by [dobutamine]{.compound_color} infusion .                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              | 0.002              | 0.287             |  
Table: Contains the bottom ten Compound-treats-Disease confidence scores before and after model calbration. Disease mentions are highlighted in [brown]{.disease_color} and Compound mentions are highlighted in [red]{.compound_color}. {#tbl:cd_bottom_ten_table}

| Compound Name   | Gene Symbol | Text   | Before Calibration | After Calibration | 
|----------------|-------------|----------------------------------------------------------|---------------|---------------| 
| Hydrocortisone  | SHBG        | serum concentrations of testicular and adrenal androgens and androgen precursors , [cortisol]{.compound_color} , unconjugated ( e1 ) and total estrone ( te1 ; greater than or equal to 85 % e1 sulfate ) , pituitary hormones , sex hormone binding globulin ( [shbg )]{.gene_color} and albumin were measured in 14 male patients with non-diabetic end stage renal disease and in 28 age-matched healthy controls . | 0.997              | 0.745             | 
| Minoxidil       | EGFR        | direct measurement of the ability of minoxidil to compete for binding to the egf receptor indicated that [minoxidil]{.compound_color} probably does not bind to the [egf receptor]{.gene_color} .                                                                                                                                                                                                                      | 0.99               | 0.706             | 
| Hydrocortisone  | SHBG        | gonadotropin , testosterone , sex hormone binding globulin ( [shbg )]{.gene_color} , dehydroepiandrosterone sulphate , androstenedione , estradiol , prolactin , [cortisol]{.compound_color} , thyrotropin , and free thyroxine levels were determined .                                                                                                                                                               | 0.988              | 0.7               | 
| Cholecalciferol | DBP         | [cholecalciferol]{.compound_color} ( vitamin d3 ) and its 25-hydroxy metabolite are transported in plasma bound to a specific protein , the binding protein for cholecalciferol and its metabolites ( [dbp )]{.gene_color} .                                                                                                                                                                                           | 0.983              | 0.685             | 
| Indomethacin    | AGT         | [indomethacin]{.compound_color} , a potent inhibitor of prostaglandin synthesis , is known to increase the maternal blood pressure response to [angiotensin ii]{.gene_color} infusion .                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | 0.982              | 0.68              | 
| Tretinoin       | RXRA        | the vitamin a derivative [retinoic acid]{.compound_color} exerts its effects on transcription through two distinct classes of nuclear receptors , the retinoic acid receptor ( rar ) and the [retinoid x receptor]{.gene_color} ( rxr ) .                                                                                                                                                                              | 0.975              | 0.668             | 
| Dopamine        | NTS         | [neurotensin]{.gene_color} binding was not modified by the addition of [dopamine]{.compound_color} .                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   | 0.97               | 0.659             | 
| D-Tyrosine      | PLCG1       | epidermal growth factor ( egf ) or platelet-derived growth factor binding to their receptor on fibroblasts induces tyrosine phosphorylation of plc gamma 1 and stable association of [plc gamma 1]{.gene_color} with the receptor protein [tyrosine]{.compound_color} kinase .                                                                                                                                         | 0.969              | 0.659             | 
| D-Tyrosine      | PLCG1       | [tyrosine]{.compound_color} phosphorylation of plc-ii was stimulated by low physiological concentrations of egf ( 1 nm ) , was quantitative , and was already maximal after a 30 sec incubation with 50 nm egf at 37 degrees c. interestingly , antibodies specific for plc-ii were able to coimmunoprecipitate the egf receptor and antibodies against egf receptor also coimmunoprecipitated [plc-ii]{.gene_color} . | 0.964              | 0.651             | 
| Ketamine        | C5          | additionally , reduction of glycine binding by the c-5 antagonists was reversed by both nmda receptor agonists and c-7 competitive [nmda]{.compound_color} antagonists , providing evidence that the site of action of these [c-5]{.gene_color} antagonists is the nmda recognition site , resulting in indirect modulation of the glycine site .                                                                      | 0.957              | 0.643             | 
Table: Contains the top ten Compound-treats-Disease confidence scores before and after model calbration. Gene mentions are highlighted in [blue]{.gene_color} and Compound mentions are highlighted in [red]{.compound_color}. {#tbl:cg_top_ten_table}

| Compound Name  | Gene Symbol | Text   | Before Calibration | After Calibration | 
|----------------|-------------|----------------------------------------------------------|-------------|-------------| 
| Iron           | NDUFB3      | since gastric acid plays an important role in the absorption process of [iron]{.compound_color} and vitamin b12 , we determined levels of iron , ferritin , vitamin [b12]{.gene_color} , and folic acid in 75 serum samples obtained during continuous omeprazole therapy ( 6-48 months after start of therapy ) from 34 patients with peptic diseases ( primarily reflux esophagitis ) .                 | 0.006              | 0.276             | 
| D-Tyrosine     | PLAU        | either the 55 kda u-pa form and the lower mw form ( 33 kda ) derived from the 55 kda [u-pa]{.gene_color} are tyr-phosphorylated also the u-pa secreted in the culture media of human fibrosarcoma cells ( ht-1080 ) is phosphorylated in [tyrosine]{.compound_color} as well as u-pa present in tissue extracts of tumors induced in nude mice by ht-1080 cells .                                         | 0.006              | 0.276             | 
| D-Leucine      | POMC        | cross-reactivities of [leucine-enkephalin]{.compound_color} and [beta-endorphin]{.gene_color} with the eia were less than 0.1 % , while that with gly-gly-phe-met and oxidized gly-gly-phe-met were 2.5 % and 10.2 % , respectively .                                                                                                                                                                     | 0.006              | 0.273             | 
| Eprazinone     | GAST        | in patients with renal failure there exists the inhibition of the gastrin acid secretion which is the cause of the weakening of the mechanism of the feedback connection between [hcl]{.compound_color} and [gastrin]{.gene_color} , while because of a permanent stimulation of g-cells , the hyperplasia of these cells develops , as well as the increased secretory activity , and hypergastrinemia . | 0.005              | 0.271             | 
| Hydrocortisone | GH1         | luteinizing hormone responses to luteinizing hormone releasing hormone , and [growth hormone]{.gene_color} and [cortisol]{.compound_color} responses to insulin induced hypoglycaemia in functional secondary amenorrhoea .                                                                                                                                                                               | 0.005              | 0.271             | 
| Hydrocortisone | GH1         | group iv patients had normal basal levels of lh and normal lh , [gh]{.gene_color} and [cortisol]{.compound_color} responses .                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             | 0.005              | 0.269             | 
| Bupivacaine    | AVP         | plasma renin activity and [vasopressin]{.gene_color} concentration , arterial pressure , and serum osmolality were measured in 17 patients before and after random epidural injection of either 6.7 ml of 0.75 % [bupivacaine]{.compound_color} ( n = 7 ) or the same volume of saline ( n = 10 ) .                                                                                                       | 0.004              | 0.26              | 
| Epinephrine    | INS         | thermogenic effect of thyroid hormones : interactions with [epinephrine]{.compound_color} and [insulin]{.gene_color} .                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    | 0.004              | 0.259             | 
| Hydrocortisone | GH1         | [cortisol]{.compound_color} and [growth hormone]{.gene_color} ( gh ) secretion ( spontaneous variations at night and the release induced by insulin hypoglycaemia ) were investigated in 69 children and adolescents .                                                                                                                                                                                    | 0.002              | 0.241             | 
| Estriol        | LGALS1      | [ diagnostic value of serial determination of [estriol]{.compound_color} and [hpl]{.gene_color} in plasma and of total estrogens in 24-h-urine compared to single values for diagnosis of fetal danger ] .                                                                                                                                                                                                | 0.0                | 0.181             |
Table: Contains the bottom ten Compound-binds-Gene confidence scores before and after model calbration. Gene mentions are highlighted in [blue]{.gene_color} and Compound mentions are highlighted in [red]{.compound_color}. {#tbl:cg_bottom_ten_table}

| Gene1 Symbol | Gene2 Symbol | Text   | Before Calibration | After Calibration | 
|-----------|-------------|----------------------------------------------------------|-------------|-------------| 
| INS          | HSPA4        | conclusions : intact insulin only weakly interacts with the [hsp70]{.gene_color} chaperone dnak whereas monomeric proinsulin and peptides from 3 distinct [proinsulin]{.gene_color} regions show substantial chaperone binding .                                   | 0.834              | 0.574             | 
| NMT1         | S100B        | values for k ( cat ) indicated that , once gag or [nef]{.gene_color} binds to the enzyme , myristoylation by [nmt1]{.gene_color} and nmt2 proceeds at comparable rates .                                                                                           | 0.826              | 0.571             | 
| VEGFA        | HIF1A        | mechanistically , we demonstrated that resveratrol inhibited [hif-1alpha]{.gene_color} and [vegf]{.gene_color} expression through multiple mechanisms .                                                                                                            | 0.82               | 0.569             | 
| ITGAV        | PECAM1       | antigens expressed on emp and ec were assayed flow cytometrically and included constitutive markers ( [cd31]{.gene_color} , [cd51/61]{.gene_color} , cd105 ) , inducible markers ( cd54 , cd62e and cd106 ) , and annexin v binding .                              | 0.81               | 0.566             | 
| F10          | PF4          | these compounds inhibit both [factor xa]{.gene_color} and thrombin , in the presence of antithrombin , while they are devoid of undesirable non-specific interactions , particularly with [platelet factor 4]{.gene_color} ( pf4 ) .                               | 0.766              | 0.554             | 
| NFKB2        | RELB         | the results indicate that dystrophic muscle is characterized by increases in the whole cell expression of ikappab-alpha , p65 , p50 , [relb]{.gene_color} , [p100]{.gene_color} , p52 , ikk , and traf-3 .                                                         | 0.76               | 0.553             | 
| SSSCA1       | CDKN1B       | conclusion : hl-60 / ht cells have lower [p27 (]{.gene_color} [kip1 )]{.gene_color} expression compared with hl-60 cells .                                                                                                                                         | 0.757              | 0.552             | 
| PTH2R        | PTH2         | thus , the juxtamembrane receptor domain specifies the signaling and binding selectivity of [tip39]{.gene_color} for the [pth2 receptor]{.gene_color} over the pth1 receptor .                                                                                     | 0.749              | 0.55              | 
| MMP9         | MMP2         | all these factors markedly influenced the secretion and/or activation of [mmp-2]{.gene_color} and [mmp-9]{.gene_color} .                                                                                                                                           | 0.738              | 0.547             | 
| CCND1        | ABL1         | synergy with [v-abl]{.gene_color} depended on a motif in [cyclin d1]{.gene_color} that mediates its binding to the retinoblastoma protein , suggesting that abl oncogenes in part mediate their mitogenic effects via a retinoblastoma protein-dependent pathway . | 0.736              | 0.547             |
Table: Contains the top ten Gene-interacts-Gene confidence scores before and after model calbration. Both gene mentions highlighted in [blue]{.gene_color}. {#tbl:gg_top_ten_table}

| Gene1 Symbol | Gene2 Symbol | Text  | Before Calibration | After Calibration | 
|-----------|-------------|----------------------------------------------------------|-------------|-------------|  
| IFNG         | IL6          | in the control group , the positive rate for il-4 , [il-6]{.gene_color} , il-10 were 0/10 , 2/10 and 1/10 , respectively , and those for il-2 and [ifn-gamma]{.gene_color} were both 1/10 .                                                                      | 0.012              | 0.306             | 
| ACHE         | BCHE         | anticholinesterase activity was determined against acetylcholinesterase ( [ache )]{.gene_color} and butyrylcholinesterase ( [bche )]{.gene_color} , the enzymes vital for alzheimer 's disease , at 50 , 100 and 200 g ml ( -1 ) .                               | 0.011              | 0.306             | 
| CCL2         | AGT          | we found no significant increase in [mcp-1]{.gene_color} concentrations by [ang ii]{.gene_color} alone ; but it enhanced the tnf-alpha-induced mcp-1 mrna expression in a dose-dependent manner .                                                                | 0.011              | 0.306             | 
| CXCL8        | IL1B         | furthermore , somatostatin completely abrogated the increased secretion of [il-8]{.gene_color} and [il-1beta]{.gene_color} after invasion by salmonella .                                                                                                        | 0.011              | 0.303             | 
| SULT1A2      | SULT1A3      | to date , the laboratory has cloned seven unique human sulfotransferases ; five aryl sulfotransferases ( hast1 , hast2 , [hast3]{.gene_color} , [hast4]{.gene_color} and hast4v ) , an estrogen sulfotransferase and a dehydroepiandrosterone sulfotransferase . | 0.009              | 0.295             | 
| IFNG         | IL10         | results : we found weak mrna expression of interleukin-4 ( il-4 ) and il-5 , and strong expression of il-6 , [il-10]{.gene_color} and [ifn-gamma]{.gene_color} before therapy .                                                                                  | 0.008              | 0.292             | 
| IL2          | IFNG         | prostaglandin e2 at priming of naive cd4 + t cells inhibits acquisition of ability to produce [ifn-gamma]{.gene_color} and [il-2]{.gene_color} , but not il-4 and il-5 .                                                                                         | 0.007              | 0.289             | 
| IL2          | IFNG         | the detailed distribution of lymphokine-producing cells showed that [il-2]{.gene_color} and [ifn-gamma-producing]{.gene_color} cells were located mainly in the follicular areas .                                                                               | 0.007              | 0.287             | 
| IL2          | IFNG         | pbl of ms patients produced more pro-inflammatory cytokines , [il-2]{.gene_color} , [ifn-gamma]{.gene_color} and tnf/lymphotoxin , and less anti-inflammatory cytokine , tgf-beta , during wk 2 to 4 in culture than pbl of normal controls .                    | 0.006              | 0.283             | 
| NFKB1        | TNF          | [nf-kappab-dependent]{.gene_color} reporter gene transcription activated by [tnf]{.gene_color} was also suppressed by calagualine .                                                                                                                              | 0.005              | 0.276             | 
Table: Contains the bottom ten Gene-interacts-Gene confidence scores before and after model calbration. Both gene mentions highlighted in [blue]{.gene_color}. {#tbl:gg_bottom_ten_table}

### Baseline Comparison

![
Comparion between our model and CoCoScore model [@tag:cocoscore].
We report both model's performance in terms of AUROC and AUPR.
Our model achieves comparable performance against CoCoScore in terms of AUROC.
As for AUPR, CoCoScore consistently outperforms our model except for CtD. 
](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/danich1/snorkeling/0149086785b19f9429c92565d650e9d049c136ff/figures/literature_models/model_comparison.png){#fig:cocoscore_comparison}

Once our discriminator model is calibrated, we grouped sentences based on mention pair (edges).
We assigned each edge the maximum score over all grouped sentences and compared our model's ability to predict pairs in our test set to a previously published baseline model [@tag:cocoscore].
Performance is reported in terms of AUROC and AUPR (Figure {@fig:cocoscore_comparison}).
Across edge types our model shows comparable performance against the baseline in terms of AUROC.
Regarding AUPR, our model shows hindered performance against the baseline.
The exception for both cases is CtD where our model performs better than the baseline.

### Reconstructing Hetionet

![
A scatter plot showing the number of edges (log scale) we can add or recall at specified precision levels. 
The blue depicts edges existing in hetionet and the orange depicts how many novel edges can be added.
](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/danich1/snorkeling/0149086785b19f9429c92565d650e9d049c136ff/figures/edge_prediction_experiment/edges_added.png){#fig:hetionet_reconstruction}

We evaluated how many edges we can recall/add to Hetionet v1 (Supplemental Figure {@fig:hetionet_reconstruction} and Table {@tbl:edge_prediction_tbl}).
In our evaluation we used edges assigned to our test set.
Overall, we can recall a small amount of edges at high precision thresholds.
A key example is CbG and GiG where we recalled only one exisiting edge at 100% precision.
Despite the low recall, we are still able to add novel edges to DaG and CtD while retaining modest precision.

| Edge Type | Source Node             | Target Node               | Gen Model Prediction | Disc Model Prediction | Number of Sentences | Text   | 
|--------------|----------------------|------------------------|----------------------|-----------------------|---------------------|-----------------------------------------| 
| [D]{.disease_color}a[G]{.gene_color}       | lung cancer             | VEGFA                     | 1.000                | 0.912                 | 3293                | conclusion : the plasma [vegf]{.gene_color} level is increased in [nsclc]{.disease_color} patients with approximate1y one fourth to have cancer cells in the peripheral blood.                                                                                                                                                                                  | 
| [D]{.disease_color}a[G]{.gene_color}       | hematologic cancer      | TP53                      | 1.000                | 0.905                 | 8660                | mutations of the [p53]{.gene_color} gene were found in four cases of [cml]{.disease_color} in blastic crisis ( bc ).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            | 
| [D]{.disease_color}a[G]{.gene_color}       | obesity                 | MC4R                      | 1.000                | 0.901                 | 1493                | several mutations in the [melanocortin 4 receptor]{.gene_color} gene are associated with [obesity]{.disease_color} in chinese children and adolescents.                                                                                                                                                                                                         | 
| [D]{.disease_color}a[G]{.gene_color}       | Alzheimer's disease     | VLDLR                     | 1.000                | 0.886                 | 86                  | the 5-repeat allele in the [very-low-density lipoprotein receptor]{.gene_color} gene polymorphism is not increased in sporadic [alzheimer 's disease]{.disease_color} in japanese.                                                                                                                                                                              | 
| [D]{.disease_color}a[G]{.gene_color}       | lung cancer             | XRCC1                     | 1.000                | 0.885                 | 662                 | results : [xrcc1]{.gene_color} gene polymorphism is associated with increased risk of [lung cancer]{.disease_color} when the arg/arg genotype was used as the reference group.                                                                                                                                                                                  | 
| [D]{.disease_color}a[G]{.gene_color}       | prostate cancer         | ESR1                      | 1.000                | 0.883                 | 500                 | conclusion : these results suggest that variants of the ggga polymorphism from the [estrogen receptor alpha]{.gene_color} gene may be associated with an increased risk of developing [prostate cancer]{.disease_color}.                                                                                                                                        | 
| [D]{.disease_color}a[G]{.gene_color}       | breast cancer           | REG1A                     | 1.000                | 0.878                 | 37                  | conclusion : high levels of [reg1a]{.gene_color} expression within tumors are an independent predictor of poor prognosis in patients with [breast cancer]{.disease_color}.                                                                                                                                                                                      | 
| [D]{.disease_color}a[G]{.gene_color}       | breast cancer           | INSR                      | 1.000                | 0.877                 | 200                 | we have previously reported that [insulin receptor]{.gene_color} expression is increased in human [breast cancer]{.disease_color} specimens ( v. papa et al. , j. clin.                                                                                                                                                                                         | 
| [D]{.disease_color}a[G]{.gene_color}       | rheumatoid arthritis    | AR                        | 1.000                | 0.877                 | 53                  | conclusion : our results suggest no correlation between cag repeat polymorphism in the [ar]{.gene_color} gene and response to treatment with lef in women with [ra]{.disease_color}.                                                                                                                                                                            | 
| [D]{.disease_color}a[G]{.gene_color}       | coronary artery disease | CTLA4                     | 1.000                | 0.875                 | 12                  | conclusion : the g/g genotype polymorphism of the [ctla-4]{.gene_color} gene is associated with increased risk of [ami]{.disease_color}.                                                                                                                                                                                                                        | 
| [C]{.compound_color}t[D]{.disease_color}       | Zonisamide              | epilepsy syndrome         | 1.000                | 0.943                 | 1011                | adjunctive [zonisamide]{.compound_color} therapy in the long-term treatment of children with [partial epilepsy]{.disease_color} : results of an open-label extension study of a phase iii , randomized , double-blind , placebo-controlled trial.                                                                                                               | 
| [C]{.compound_color}t[D]{.disease_color}       | Metformin               | polycystic ovary syndrome | 1.000                | 0.942                 | 3217                | in the present study , 23 [pcos]{.disease_color} subjects [ mean ( + / - se ) body mass index 30.0 + / -1.1 kg/m2 ] were randomly assigned to double-blind treatment with [metformin]{.compound_color} ( 500 mg tid ) or placebo for 6 months , while maintaining their usual eating habits.                                                                    | 
| [C]{.compound_color}t[D]{.disease_color}       | Piroxicam               | rheumatoid arthritis      | 1.000                | 0.928                 | 184                 | methods : a double-blind , randomized , crossover trial in 49 patients with active [ra]{.disease_color} compared 6 weeks of treatment with tenidap ( 120 mg/day ) versus 6 weeks of treatment with [piroxicam]{.compound_color} ( 20 mg/day ).                                                                                                                  | 
| [C]{.compound_color}t[D]{.disease_color}       | Irinotecan              | stomach cancer            | 1.000                | 0.918                 | 968                 | randomized phase ii trial of first-line treatment with tailored [irinotecan]{.compound_color} and s-1 therapy versus s-1 monotherapy for advanced or recurrent [gastric carcinoma]{.disease_color} ( jfmc31-0301 ).                                                                                                                                             | 
| [C]{.compound_color}t[D]{.disease_color}       | Treprostinil            | hypertension              | 1.000                | 0.913                 | 536                 | oral [treprostinil]{.compound_color} for the treatment of [pulmonary arterial hypertension]{.disease_color} in patients receiving background endothelin receptor antagonist and phosphodiesterase type 5 inhibitor therapy ( the freedom-c2 study ) : a randomized controlled trial.                                                                            | 
| [C]{.compound_color}t[D]{.disease_color}       | Colchicine              | gout                      | 1.000                | 0.911                 | 78                  | this is the first in vivo data to provide a biological rationale that supports the implementation of low dose , non-toxic , [colchicine]{.compound_color} therapy for the treatment of [gouty arthritis]{.disease_color}.                                                                                                                                       | 
| [C]{.compound_color}t[D]{.disease_color}       | Propranolol             | stomach cancer            | 1.000                | 0.898                 | 45                  | 74 cirrhotic patients with a history of variceal or [gastric bleeding]{.disease_color} were randomly assigned to treatment with [propranolol]{.compound_color} ( 40 to 360 mg/day ) or placebo.                                                                                                                                                                 | 
| [C]{.compound_color}t[D]{.disease_color}       | Reboxetine              | endogenous depression     | 1.000                | 0.894                 | 439                 | data were obtained from four short-term ( 4-8-week ) , randomized , placebo-controlled trials of [reboxetine]{.compound_color} for the treatment of [mdd]{.disease_color}.                                                                                                                                                                                      | 
| [C]{.compound_color}t[D]{.disease_color}       | Diclofenac              | ankylosing spondylitis    | 1.000                | 0.892                 | 61                  | comparison of two different dosages of celecoxib with [diclofenac]{.compound_color} for the treatment of active [ankylosing spondylitis]{.disease_color} : results of a 12-week randomised , double-blind , controlled study.                                                                                                                                   | 
| [C]{.compound_color}t[D]{.disease_color}       | Tapentadol              | osteoarthritis            | 1.000                | 0.880                 | 29                  | driving ability in patients with severe chronic low back or [osteoarthritis]{.disease_color} knee pain on stable treatment with [tapentadol]{.compound_color} prolonged release : a multicenter , open-label , phase 3b trial.                                                                                                                                  | 
| [C]{.compound_color}b[G]{.gene_color}       | Dexamethasone           | NR3C1                     | 1.000                | 0.850                 | 1119                | submicromolar free calcium modulates [dexamethasone]{.compound_color} binding to the [glucocorticoid receptor]{.gene_color}.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    | 
| [C]{.compound_color}b[G]{.gene_color}       | Vitamin A               | RBP4                      | 1.000                | 0.807                 | 5512                | the authors give serum [retinol]{.compound_color} binding protein ( [rbp )]{.gene_color} normal values , established by immunonephelometry , for two healthy populations in their hospital laboratory.                                                                                                                                                          | 
| [C]{.compound_color}b[G]{.gene_color}       | D-Proline               | IGFBP4                    | 1.000                | 0.790                 | 1                   | the insulin-like growth factor-i-stimulated [l-proline]{.compound_color} uptake was inhibited by one of its binding protein , [insulin-like growth factor binding protein-4]{.gene_color} , in a concentration-dependent manner.                                                                                                                                | 
| [C]{.compound_color}b[G]{.gene_color}       | Sucrose                 | AR                        | 0.996                | 0.789                 | 37                  | the amount ( maximal binding capacity of 24 to 30 fmol/mg protein ) and hormone binding affinity ( half-maximal saturation of 0.2 nm ) of the [androgen receptor]{.gene_color} in cultured skin fibroblasts was normal , but the receptor was qualitatively abnormal as evidenced by instability on [sucrose]{.compound_color} density gradient centrifugation. | 
| [C]{.compound_color}b[G]{.gene_color}       | D-Lysine                | PLG                       | 1.000                | 0.787                 | 403                 | in both elisa and rocket immunoelectrophoresis systems , complex formation was inhibited by 10 mm epsilon-amino-n-caproic acid , implying that there is a role for the [lysine]{.compound_color} binding sites of [plg]{.gene_color} in mediating the interaction.                                                                                              | 
| [C]{.compound_color}b[G]{.gene_color}       | Adenosine               | INSR                      | 1.000                | 0.785                 | 129                 | these findings demonstrate basal state binding of [atp]{.compound_color} to the ckd leading to cis-autophosphorylation and novel basal state regulatory interactions among the subdomains of the [insulin receptor]{.gene_color} kinase.                                                                                                                        | 
| [C]{.compound_color}b[G]{.gene_color}       | Adenosine               | PLK1                      | 1.000                | 0.783                 | 104                 | most kinase inhibitors interact with the [atp]{.compound_color} binding site on [plk1]{.gene_color} , which is highly conserved.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | 
| [C]{.compound_color}b[G]{.gene_color}       | Calcium Chloride        | ITPR3                     | 0.995                | 0.777                 | 1954                | control of [ca2]{.compound_color} + influx in human neutrophils by inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate ( ip3 ) binding : differential effects of micro-injected [ip3 receptor]{.gene_color} antagonists.                                                                                                                                                               | 
| [C]{.compound_color}b[G]{.gene_color}       | D-Arginine              | C5AR1                     | 1.000                | 0.775                 | 808                 | thus , selected out of a multiplicity of possibilities by the natural binding partner , [arg37]{.compound_color} as well as arg40 appear to be anchor residues in binding to the [c5a receptor]{.gene_color}.                                                                                                                                                   | 
| [C]{.compound_color}b[G]{.gene_color}       | Ticagrelor              | P2RY12                    | 1.000                | 0.773                 | 322                 | purpose : [ticagrelor]{.compound_color} is a reversibly binding [p2y12]{.gene_color} receptor antagonist used clinically for the prevention of atherothrombotic events in patients with acute coronary syndromes ( acs ).                                                                                                                                       | 
| [G]{.gene_color}i[G]{.gene_color}       | ABL1                    | ABL1                      | 0.999                | 0.600                 | 9572                | the acquired resistance in patients who failed to respond to imatinib seemed to be induced by several point mutations in the [bcr-abl]{.gene_color} gene , which were likely to affect the binding of imatinib with [bcr-abl]{.gene_color}.                                                                                                                     | 
| [G]{.gene_color}i[G]{.gene_color}       | TP63                    | TP53                      | 1.000                | 0.595                 | 2557                | [tp63]{.gene_color} , a member of the [p53]{.gene_color} gene family gene , encodes the np63 protein and is one of the most frequently amplified genes in squamous cell carcinomas ( scc ) of the head and neck ( hnscc ) and lungs ( lusc ).                                                                                                                   | 
| [G]{.gene_color}i[G]{.gene_color}       | FERMT1                  | FERMT1                    | 0.004                | 0.590                 | 194                 | ks is caused by mutations in the [fermt1]{.gene_color} gene encoding [kindlin-1]{.gene_color}.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | 
| [G]{.gene_color}i[G]{.gene_color}       | GRN                     | GRN                       | 1.000                | 0.590                 | 3842                | background : mutations in the [progranulin]{.gene_color} gene ( [pgrn )]{.gene_color} have recently been identified as a cause of frontotemporal lobar degeneration with ubiquitin-positive inclusions ( ftld-u ) in some families.                                                                                                                             | 
| [G]{.gene_color}i[G]{.gene_color}       | FASN                    | EP300                     | 0.999                | 0.589                 | 6                   | here , we demonstrated that [p300]{.gene_color} binds to and increases histone h3 lysine 27 acetylation ( h3k27ac ) in the [fasn]{.gene_color} gene promoter.                                                                                                                                                                                                   | 
| [G]{.gene_color}i[G]{.gene_color}       | SETBP1                  | SETBP1                    | 1.000                | 0.588                 | 354                 | the critical deleted region contains [setbp1]{.gene_color} gene ( [set binding protein 1 )]{.gene_color}.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       | 
| [G]{.gene_color}i[G]{.gene_color}       | BCL2                    | BAK1                      | 0.118                | 0.587                 | 1220                | different expression patterns of [bcl-2]{.gene_color} family genes in breast cancer by estrogen receptor status with special reference to pro-apoptotic [bak]{.gene_color} gene.                                                                                                                                                                                | 
| [G]{.gene_color}i[G]{.gene_color}       | SP1                     | INSR                      | 0.948                | 0.587                 | 23                  | thus , the efficient expression of the human [insulin receptor]{.gene_color} gene possibly requires the binding of transcriptional factor [sp1]{.gene_color} to four g-c boxes located -593 to -618 base pairs upstream of the atg translation initiation codon.                                                                                                | 
| [G]{.gene_color}i[G]{.gene_color}       | ABCD1                   | ABCD1                     | 1.000                | 0.586                 | 410                 | x-linked adrenoleukodystrophy ( x-ald ) is caused by mutations in the [abcd1]{.gene_color} gene encoding the peroxisomal abc transporter adrenoleukodystrophy protein ( [aldp )]{.gene_color}.                                                                                                                                                                  | 
| [G]{.gene_color}i[G]{.gene_color}       | CYP1A1                  | AHR                       | 0.996                | 0.586                 | 1940                | the liganded [ah receptor]{.gene_color} activates transcription by binding to a specific dna-recognition motif within a dioxin-responsive enhancer upstream of the [cyp1a1]{.gene_color} gene.                                                                                                                                                                  |
Table: Contains the top ten predictions for each edge type. Highlighted words represent entities mentioned within the given sentence. {#tbl:edge_prediction_tbl}
